# Diabetes-Prediction-Framework-using-Two-level-Classification-Process
Diabetes Mellitus is popularly known as one of the top most ailment with highest kill rate. Currently, there are more than 422 million patients worldwide suffering from this disease, majority of which fall under the type 2 diabetic status. India can be labelled the diabetic capital of the world with the second largest population of diabetic patients. Diabetes has a very high mortality rate due to the fact that majority of the patients do not get their diagnosis in time. In fact, one of two diabetes patients realize the status of their disease a little too late. This delay in diagnosis can be caused by one or more of the factors such as lack of information about the disease, cumbersome and time-consuming diagnosis procedure, lack of funds for diagnosis and low reliability of some doctors. With this project, the aim is to build a web application that can provide end-to-end service for such patients. This application ensures high accuracy of prediction, is free of charge and easily accessible over the internet at all times. Diabetex application will not only predict whether a patient has diabetes, but also give them a detailed report of the diagnosis, educate them about diabetes, help them get in touch with doctors for treatment, give feedback about the application etc. The backend of the application is built on the UCI’s PIDD (Pima Indian Diabetes Database) and uses Python, SQL, PHP, Flask and HTML5 as its base technology. The classifier is a special two-level system where various classifiers at level one is assigned weightage and fed into the ensemble classifier at level two to increase accuracy and mimic real-life diagnosis environment. This system is compared to various other approaches for novelty and better results.
